Okay.
So the next thing that we need to do is to install another NPM library called Axios.
Axios is an NPM library for making HTTP requests.
So now that we have our fake back and set up, we need some kind of library that we're going to use
in view.
In order to hit this end point, we need a library on the view side of things.
That's going to make a request out to the Internet or to some endpoint at least, which is going to
be this one in order to fetch that data.
So keep this server running.
Keep this terminal tab running as is.
Don't shut it down and open up a new terminal on a mac.
I can do that with command t I believe on windows it might be controlled t and if you can't find it,
you can go into the settings, like the settings up here usually or on the start menu.
And you should find some kind of option to create a new tab or a new window.
The reason we need to do this is because we still need this server and this process running in the background
for what we're about to do.
So here in the job search project directory, I'm going to run my NPM install command again and I'm
going to add the dash dash save flag to save it to my project dependencies.
And the library is called Axios Axios.
So press enter here and that will go ahead and fetch Axios.
And once we're good there, we can transition back to voice code, make sure again to keep this server
running because we do need it to be live in order for us to have a endpoint that we can hit on the JavaScript
side of things to get that data.
So keep the JSON server running and head to this code.
And the first place I'd like to go is actually to our experimental playground JS file.
As a reminder, this is a file where we just play around with JavaScript and view concepts outside of
our view app.
And the reason I want to do it here is I just want to show you how Axios works in case you haven't worked
with it before.
So if you have any code in this file from previous lessons, feel free to delete it and let's take a
look at how Axios operates.
So what I'm going to do is first import the Axios library and I'm going to use the old import syntax
because this import syntax is not guaranteed to be supported in your JavaScript file or your node version.
It is supported in our view app.
But that is because Webpack is transpiring in a plain JavaScript file that we're going to run with Node.
There's no guarantee yet that this syntax is going to work.
So the way we're going to import Axios is going to be like this.
I'm going to declare a constant called Axios and we're going to use the built in require keyboard,
keyword and import the Axios library.
The next thing that I'd like to do is define the URL that we'd like Axios to hit.
So right here I'll define a new constant called the URL, and we're going to set that to the exact same
URL we hit in Chrome in the previous lesson.
So http colon slash slash local host colon, 3000 slash jobs.
That is our URL.
That is our one endpoint that we set up with JSON server.
So now in order to get Axios to hit that URL to make that request, just like our browser does, we
call a method on the Axios object called Get, and that makes a get request to a given URL.
So I'm going to invoke that method and it expects an argument of the URL.
So right here, I'm going to provide of course, our URL constant that references that string and that
is going to fetch the request.
The way it's going to work is the get method is going to return a promise.
The reason it's going to return a promise is because this is an asynchronous operation.
There is no guarantee how quickly the server will respond.
It can take 5 seconds, it can take 1/2, it could take a 10th of a second.
And the reason we use promises is whenever we have some operation that may take some amount of time
and we want to tell JavaScript what to do when it is able to get to the next step.
When the original operation completes, then we want it to run some additional code.
So we're receiving a promise object here.
And on that promise object we have a then method and to that Z method we provide a argument of a function
that represents what to do when the promise resolves, or in other words, when the request completes.
So we can provide an arrow function here in line.
And what Axios is going to provide to us from this new URL is is a special object that we call a response
object.
So I'm going to type that object in here as the parameter to my arrow function.
And that response object does store our data that we got from this end point.
But it also stores other information such as the response status, such as metadata headers, all this
additional details about how the request actually went.
But on this object, the way that we can get the actual response from the server, the actual array
of jobs themselves is by accessing the data property.
So on response on that object, there's going to be a data property.
And if I console.log that that should show us the array of jobs that we set up in DB, that JSON.
All right.
So now that we have this file set up, we can run it.
So I'm going to open up my terminal here in V code.
And I'm going to run Node followed by my file name, which is in the source directory.
So node source, playground.
Jasper All right.
And there is it was a little bit slow at the very beginning as it made its request, and then it received
the data from the back end and printed it out.
So right here, as an example, we have those jobs that we set up in DB, that JSON.
So what happened?
Our Axios library made a request to this URL.
It got the data.
It wrapped it up in this response object and then we printed it out to the screen using console.log.
So here is data that we are getting from an end point from what is effectively a URL or a location on
the internet in the real world.
Except of course, our server is running on our computer.
So we basically made a request from our computer to our computer, but it hopefully demonstrates the
purpose or the syntax of how Axios works.
So now that we understand how Axios works in isolation, we can incorporate it into a view component
in the very next lesson.